And the man knew Eve his 
wife; and she conceived and 
bore Cain, and said: 'I have 
gotten a man with the help 
of the LORD.'
And again she bore his brother Abel. And Abel 
was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of 
the ground.
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain 
brought of the fruit of the ground an offering 
unto the LORD.
And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and 
of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel 
and to his offering;
but unto Cain and to his offering He had not respect. And 
Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
And the LORD said unto Cain: 'Why art thou 
wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?
If thou doest well, shall it not be lifted up? and if 
thou doest not well, sin coucheth at the door; and 
unto thee is its desire, but thou mayest rule over 
it.'
And Cain spoke unto Abel his brother. And it 
came to pass, when they were in the field, that 
Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew 
him.
And the LORD said unto Cain: 'Where is Abel thy 
brother?' And he said: 'I know not; am I my 
brother's keeper?'
And He said: 'What hast thou done? the voice of 
thy brother's blood crieth unto Me from the 
ground.
And now cursed art thou from the ground, which 
hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's 
blood from thy hand.
When thou tillest the ground, it shall not 
henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive 
and a wanderer shalt thou be in the earth.'
And Cain said unto the LORD: 'My punishment is 
greater than I can bear.
Behold, Thou hast driven me out this day from the 
face of the land; and from Thy face shall I be hid; 
and I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the 
earth; and it will come to pass, that whosoever 
findeth me will slay me.'
And the LORD said unto him: 'Therefore 
whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken 
on him sevenfold.' And the LORD set a sign for 
Cain, lest any finding him should smite him.
And Cain went out from the presence of the 
LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east 
of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and 
bore Enoch; and he builded a city, and called the 
name of the city after the name of his son Enoch.
And unto Enoch was born Irad; and Irad begot 
Mehujael; and Mehujael begot Methushael; and 
Methushael begot Lamech.
And Lamech took unto him two wives; the name 
of one was Adah, and the name of the other 
Zillah.
And Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of such as 
dwell in tents and have cattle.
And his brother's name was Jubal; he was the 
father of all such as handle the harp and pipe.
And Zillah, she also bore Tubal-cain, the forger of 
every cutting instrument of brass and iron; and the 
sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
And Lamech said unto his wives: Adah and 
Zillah, hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, 
hearken unto my speech; for I have slain a man 
for wounding me, and a young man for bruising 
me;
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech 
seventy and sevenfold.
And Adam knew his wife again; and she bore a 
son, and called his name Seth: 'for God hath 
appointed me another seed instead of Abel; for 
Cain slew him.'
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and 
he called his name Enosh; then began men to call 
upon the name of the LORD.

